So we are now ready to load the data from our query editor into the data model
but there is something that we have to understand,
let's see what that is.
So this is our current situation,
we have our 10 queries in the left column and we have that data model queries, so in the data model
group,
so those are actually the queries that we only want to have in our data model,
right.
Let's keep that in mind
but for the moment, we will simply load all of the queries into our data model. To do that,
we simply press close and apply up here
So we are in the actual data model now and you can see that easily because we have those three ribbons,
so the report view, that data view and the relationship view. Now in the right column in that fields column,
you can see that all the queries we had in our query editor were loaded as tables into our data model
and I don't think this is really good to be honest because actually, we only need the two DIM tables and
the FACT table as important tables or as the tables that we cleaned and shaped and the other tables are
just supporting those three tables.
The same thing is true if we go into the data view for instance, here we also have all the tables that we
created in the query editor,
so wouldn't it be great if we would have an options on how to kind of unhide or kind of make those
tables invisible in the data view and in the report view or in the data model in general?
The good thing is that we have two options on how we can do that
but before we start taking a look at these options, let's first go to the file location of our project
and take a look at the project size,
let's do that.
So here I am in the location of the Power BI file
we are working at the moment,
this is the last file right here
and if you look at the file size, you can see that this is quite huge,
it has 46 megabytes.
Now keep that number in mind,
let's go back to a project now.
So the first thing we can do is we can right-click on to the table up here and press hide in report
view and let's do the same thing for all of the other tables,
so this means for all of the tables except for the DIM table and the FACT table, let's right-click here
and there and there, this one, that one
and the final one, like this.
So we now selected that
and if we now go back to the report view, we can see that only the tables that we didn't unhide are visible.
So this is at least one step towards what we want
actually, right?
Because if somebody wants to work in the report view now, he can only see those three relevant tables.
Now this is good but there are two disadvantages regarding that option,
the first one, you already saw. If you go back to the data view, then we can see that
well yes
the other tables are in a different color but they are still visible and you can even click on them.
So this is one disadvantage, right?
The model is not really clean by using this option
and the second disadvantage becomes evident if we save that first and now go back to the project location
and right here you can see that the file size,
well it didn't change right,
so we still have that big file although we hid some tables.
So maybe that's not the best option on how we can do that,
let's go back to a project and unhide all of the tables. Back in the project
and if we now simply right-click onto one of the hidden tables and press unhide all, then we can see,
let me just close the table by the way, that all of the tables are back again
and also in the report view. So hiding didn't work,
let's go back to the query editor and see what other option we might have.
So we click right here and now we are, well I would say back home, right
and as we know that environment, we can now go to the queries column and right-click onto one of those
queries, like this and here you can find that enable load option,
let's see what that is.
So we saw that enable load option
and to understand that, we simply have to understand that illustration.
So this is where we started,
we have some source files, some csv files for instance in our case and what we did then is that
we imported the data and by importing data, I don't mean loading the data from the query editor into the data
model but simply creating that queries,
so that connection from the query editor to the source file.
So we have that queries and we are in the query editor to prepare that data and the current setting is that
it's default,
this means we enable the load for all queries
and what this means is the following. As we enable the load for all queries, all of the queries
and by that, all of the information is loaded into the data model and here you can see data view and report view,
this is also true for the relationship
view of course but we will talk about the relationship view in the next module,
this is why you cannot see that right here.
So this is one option and this was the option that we just saw
but there is a second option and it has to do with that enable load button that we just saw,
let's take a look.
So again, we have Query 1 and Query 2 and we load the data from the source file to the query editor
but now there is a difference because now we enable the load only for selected queries, for instance
for Query 1
and what is happening then is the following. We only load Query 1 into our data model,
this means only the loaded queries are visible or these queries our tables in the data model actually,
only these tables are then visible in the data model
if they were selected as enable load. If you unable the enable load option, then you won't see the data,
you won't see the information and by that, this won't consume any memory of your data model
and this makes this approach easier to handle because you only have the information in the data model
that you want to have and it consumes less memory.
So this is what we could do right now
and let's see how this works in our project.
So we now have to unable the load option for all the queries that we don't need in the data model
and this is true for all of the initial queries.
So we simply right-click right here and press the enable load button and now we have that possible data loss
warning,
why is this appearing?
Well if you would imagine that you would create a visualization that is based on information in that specific
query and if you would then unable the load of that query and by that, unable the ability to load the information
of the query into the data model,
well then there wouldn't be anything to visualize for the chart
and by that, it would be empty
and this is why you get that warning. As we won't create any visuals based on that query,
we can simply ignore that for the moment and press continue,
select the second query and do the same thing, also for the third query, like this. I won't do it for the
population combined
query right now, just in a few seconds because I have to tell you why
we can also
unable the load for that query.
So let's do it for that queries down here
and right there and for the last one.
Now let's go back to the population combined query, we can also unable the load right here
and why is this possible?
Well the reason is quite simple.
We created a reference to that query for our data model queries and if we now unable the load for
this query, what simply will happen is that if we would update the queries, this query would update
of course
and as our data queries refer to that updated query, our data model would also be updated but the
data model queries,
so those three right here are in the actual data model.
So we have the connection to the data model because we have those three queries loaded and we made sure
that we always have the latest version of our queries
because of the population combined queries but in total, we can unselect a load right here.
So let me right-click and press unable load, like this. This is it,
we now make sure that we only load the relevant information into our data model. To do this,
we can now press close and apply, wait a few seconds and now we see that we only have have the three tables
that we want in our data model and the great thing is that the same thing is true for the data view,
we only have those three tables.
This is great
and if we now save that by clicking the save button and go back to our folder, then we can see that the
file size reduced
from, I think it was about 46 megabytes to 10 megabytes and we don't have any disadvantage because as
I explained, we still made sure that we have the most recent version of our queries in our population
combined query and our data model data refer to that population combined query in the query editor.
This means we have made sure that we have the latest version of the data but only the relevant data
in our data model.
Now let's go back to our project and actually we are done now. There are only two more things that we
have to talk about,
the first thing is that we have to summarize what we actually learned and let's summarize that in the
next video.